## DH Project Review

### _Eleni Miliotou_
  
### Introduction  
The main thesis of this [project](http://4humanities.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/humanitiesmatter300.com) is about the real meaning and benefits of studying the disciplines of Humanities. The writers tried to explain what is and how it works the field of Humanities, seen as knowledge and skills of understanding other cultures, communicating effectively with others and being able to analyze human behavior. In every infographic passage one can find a clear mention about the real and profound meaning of the presented concepts. Through several graphics, some of them really well done, it is sought to present evidence about the importance of Humanities not only for the individual’s cultural background but also for the entire humankind. 
	The starting point of this project is a short description about the nature of Humanities and how it works or better what actually offers to students who follow such area of studies. The use of different colors (black, red, green) has the mere intention to emphasize what is the mission of this field of studies.
	Through the project appear the fundamental concepts of the importance of Humanities as promoting democracy, critical thinking, reading and writing, being viewed as essential for the modern economy. Such theses are developed throughout the whole article and presented in almost each section of it. The evidence presented for supporting the main thesis it comes by using different colors and graphics, but without not so much variety of media format.  
###Concept & Content
The content of this article appears, to my point of view, being presented gradually and in a logic order, even though in some parts of it the reported information seems to be given as a sort of affirmations and assumptions. On the other hand the apparently, at first glance, specific pieces of content have an integrity and cohesion if someone would put them together so he/she can easily discover how they fix and make an overall picture of the ideas presented. 
Additionally I didn’t notice any use of data being produced by other similar projects, therefore there is a lack of utilizing further the findings of the present project, because it seems to give more emphasis of what the Humanities are able to offer to humankind and does not propose any concrete example of how one can get the best by studying them.  
	
  ###Design & Technique###  
  Generally speaking it is obvious that the design used to present the conceptual framework of the project and the techniques adopted are done very well. Definitely it would be possible to make it more attractive by using more diagrams, objects, pictures and even more animated icons. The presentation mode of the project is closer to paper presentation not so much for a digital one. Consequently the way it is delivered and the respective modes, even though less ‘digitalized’ are coherent and more suitable for being printed and given as a handout.
	If someone considers the present project as a visualization presentation undoubtedly will find it quite excellent (if we remember that it was awarded as the best in 2013). On the other side, if it is considered as infographic presentation, well there is a lot to say about it. In that latter mode hardly one can find the maximum use of the potentials offered by such tool, for example doesn’t help the reader to compare the different pieces of data shown in several parts of the article.
	The reader of the this article can easily recognize a well balanced use of old ways of writing and presenting an academic issue with the adoption of new era’s techniques, such as diagrams, graphics, data etc. This kind of mixture it was made deliberately and in perfect manner by the authors, whose intention was to make, gradually and carefully, eventual readers to feel comfortable and at their ease with the presented arguments.   
	
 ###Collaboration & Documentation###  
  The whole presentation of the core concept appears to be delivered, in a large scale, efficiently and in attractive manner. Also is organized logically, effectively and in straightforward relation with the aims and key components posted by the authors. The only negative point is the absence of any explicit intention to repeat such projection in the near future.
	In general the present project demonstrates a profound and solid documentation of its findings by reporting at the end of the article all the necessary information regarding the creators and the sources used. Additionally the authors in the last part of the paper put in evidence who and from where had been collected, edited and generated the concepts and the graphics mentioned in the article. There are clearly included all the appropriate credits to all the collaborators and contributors.
	Furthermore the creators of this project recognise the participation of all the people involved in it and besides that they invite any interested person in Humanities to give his/her own contribution by sending an email to the Centre for Digital Humanities of UCL.
	The project as a non traditional paper presentation seems to be handy to everyone interested in the field of human studies and computing.. In addition of its well documentation the whole project can be read and understood even by non ‘experts’ in the field, because is written in a simple and ‘amused’ mode using verbal and non verbal language. 
	Being a project produced from a crowdsourced list and generated by certain scholars it makes clear its influence and associations through the presentation of all the necessary credentials which made possible its production. As well acknowledgements are given to every individual that has been involved in the project and to the resources used. 
	It was difficult to find out if the whole work has been reviewed or submitted for review or even more if it has been presented at conferences. I presume that the paper was presented when it was submitted for the International Digital Humanities Awards 2013.

